Now that we understand the general algorithm I want to give you a couple more details.
That's really going to flesh out how we're going to implement this in our version of building out this
maze.
So as I said just a moment ago we're going to end up having a grid of sorts and it's great is going
to be a two dimensional array it's going to have some number of rows in this case it would have three
rows because there is one two three and there would be three columns goes one two and three having the
grid alone is not quite enough or not the most convenient way of writing out this algorithm however.
So we're going to introduce one other data structure or really technically two other structures inside
of here to kind of keep track of how we're going to actually generate this entire grid.
So when we spoke about how are we going to build this thing out and last video I said several times.
Oh yeah we're going to remove this wall between two different cells.
So the real question here is how are we going to track where there is a wall and where there is Nazi
wall.
Well to keep track of where there are walls and not we're going to add in two different pieces of terminology.
We're gonna say that if there is a wall between two different cells that are right next to each other
on the same row so this wall right here we're going to call that wall a vertical wall if there is ever
a wall between two cells in a column.
So like this one and this one right here we're going to call this wall right here a horizontal
so there are two types of walls that we're going to be concerned with vertical and horizontal to keep
track of where there are any walls.
We're going to add in two additional arrays.
These are also going to be two dimensional arrays that we're going to keep track of.
In addition to the grid one so we're going to introduce another variable or another 2D array here called
verticals and that's going to keep track of wherever there is a vertical wall and another one called
as you'd probably guess horizontals and this is going to keep track of wherever there is a horizontal
wall.
Now you can just about guarantee 100 percent that you're going to get confused by the terminology verticals
and horizontals several times as we are writing out this code.
So please right now really committed to memory that the verticals array is going to keep track of walls
that go up and down and the horizontals array is going to keep track of walls that go side to side like
so inside of both these arrays.
Like I said they're going to be two dimensional and they're going to contain a bunch of different boolean
values.
Each of these boolean values is going to be either true or false a value of true means there is no wall.
So a value of true inside of verticals or horizontals essentially can be interpreted as true.
This is like an open space false means that there is a wall.
Now with this knowledge we can start to take a look at some different sample mazes and get a sense of
the different verticals and horizontals arrays that we would create to represent each one going to do
a little bit of tracing here
and now I want to imagine how we would build up the verticals array and the horizontals array.
If I start to make a couple of changes to this little demo maze that I have right here
give me just one minute to clean this thing up.
There we go that's better.
OK.
So I want to imagine for a second how I would build out the horizontals array and the verticals one
if I remove that.
That's about that one right there that will drop just a few more like so.
So this right here would represent a valid maze.
Now I want to imagine how I would generate or what the different verticals and the horizontals arrays
would look like.
Let's first consider the horizontals.
So again this would be a two dimensional array.
So I'll put in my outer brackets like so and then I'm going to have and this is critical to inner arrays
that represent the two kind of lines of horizontal bars or walls that I can have.
The first one is right here.
That is one line of horizontal walls.
There's the second one right there.
So in this case remember also means there is a wall.
True means there is no wall right here.
There is a wall.
So I would do false and all but f or false and then open open.
So true true.
And down here open closed open.
So True False True that's how we get from having these different gaps into this horizontals array so
now we can repeat the same process and consider what this would look like for the verticals array.
So again let me delete some of this stuff on here very quickly
and there we go that's about good enough right there.
So now we can consider the verticals array.
What would this look like.
Well once again this is going to be a two dimensional array.
It's going to have two inner rows inside of it the first one in the first row of verticals is going
to represent this spacing right here and there's the second row right there.
Now I'm using the row the term row here because I'm talking about like this row and this row I'm not
talking about like that line because I would really call that a column.
They're really talking.
I'm saying that like this space right here would be the first element then that is the second element.
Third one and so on okay.
So now let's consider how we would fill out the verticals for this case.
So we have open closed open.
So that's true false and then over here we once again have open closed open the true false and true
yet.
So that is the general idea.
So misspelt verticals by the way.
That's the general idea of how we're going to keep track of these different walls.
So we have three data structures in total.
We've got the grid to track all the different actual cells that we have so that we have nine cells then
we have horizontals to keep track of the walls that run from left to right.
So like along that line right there and that line right there and we have verticals to keep track of
the different walls that go from top to bottom right there and right there when the most challenging
things to understand about this is that the verticals horizontals versus the grid array are going to
have different dimensions.
Notice that the grid array in this case would have would be a three by three as there are three columns
and three rows but the verticals are going to have some very different dimensions.
The verticals are going to have two rows so here's row one row two and three columns inside there.
So one two three over though a three two or a two by three versus a three by three for the grid all
right.
So this is another one of those topics we're done with all the diagrams.
This is another one of those topics where obviously as I'm telling you this stuff is probably really
complicated and you might be sitting there thinking what in the world is going on here.
And by the way Steven I can't read your handwriting qualifying totally fine.
We're going to write out the code here and as we write the code I got to tell you the algorithm actually
ends up being kind of clear about what is going on.
So we're gonna write out all of our code and I really think that rather quickly you're going to get
a good understanding of how this maze is really being put together.
I can tell you right now from building this thing out several times and figure out the best way to explain
it.
The hardest part to understand about this is the different dimensions between the grid array where they
array that keeps track of which cells we've actually visited and the verticals in horizontals right.
That is by far the biggest challenging thing just understanding that there are different dimensions
for each one that we need to be aware of to understand that we're going to come back to drawings like
this several times as we start to write out that code and just make sure that every step along the way
it is really really clear where all these different numbers are coming from okay.
So that's pretty much it.
Let's take a quick pause right here.
When we come back the next video we're going to start to write out some code to create the grid array
the verticals rate and the horizontals Ray as well.
So I'll see you in just a minute.